Tl: I'm always nervous.I seem to get nervous that th€ tape is sometling that I've got control
of, you know, like its going to be my tape and I think I'm nervous about speaking into
it because usually if it is someone else's then I'm less conscious of it or something you
know.
Cl: Is this yours or is it . . .
T2: Noitsnotmine. ImeanI'mnotgoingto...itsgoingtobetheirs.SohopefullyI'mnot
going to be as nervous as I would have had it been (brief laugh). We could put it where
we couldn't see it.
C2: I don't mind
T3: Yeah, O.K. You don't mind.
C3: Um, I kinda of wanted to start with a part of the dream that I had last night. U m, it's been
grating at me. Every once in a while I have a dream that I fe€l was significant and that .
. . that stick with me and I . . . and I lcrow that I need to know what it meant. This one
part of the dream had a lot of complexities. It re3lly was odd and whal it was was this
car which belongs to a man that I have been dating. I was like looking for it in the dream.
And I couldn't frnd it. And so I thought well he wasn't around. And then all of a sudden
I saw it. It was like in the brush, you know. It was definitely in sight. But it was as if it
was parked so that it wouldn't be in sight. And, you know,I can see the tree limb hanging
down and l'm real intrisued bv it. L . . It definitelv reminds of. . . the fact that this car
doesn'thave head lights right now.
You mean like they are gone. There are holes in there?
No in reality it does but there's something wrong with the headlights.
oh, oh.
Something with the electrical system keeps them working at night
They just don't tum on when you push the butlon.
Yeah.
when you push the button.
Yeah. Which means that he can't drive at night so what he does is that somelimes he
parks his car at the Seven-Eleven and leaves it there and he wouldn't necessarily be there
you know. Let's say he came to visit me. He wouldn't necessarily be there. He left my
place and went someplace else. The Seven-Eleven is like where he leaves his car and
that way it can be watched because they stay open 24 hours.
Well last evening after I left when we were all getdng together, I drove by the
Seven-Eleven to see if his car was there beaause I was interested to know if he was in
town. He is from Cleveland. And I drove by aad the car wasn't there and I remembered
havingathoughtthatmaybehewassomewhereelse.And...ah...ormaybehedidn't
even want me to know lhal he was in town. And I'm pretty sure that's what the dream
has to do with. My concern that he doesn'r want me to know that he's around. Really I
think it goes a little deeper than that. I should say that he doesn't want a relationship like
I do.
Well the thing was hiding. . . the carbeing hidden behind the tree symbolized him hiding
it somewhere.
Yeah. That bothers me (pause) I have different feelings about it.
Yeah, that bothers you that he doesn't want. . . you feel he doesn't . . . .
Well yeah, the relationship . . . O.K. I have to clarify that we have only known each other
for two weeks, O.K. And its probably premature, but we spent a whole lot of lime with
each other in the past week and a half and I was basically on cloud nine about the whole
79
T4:
C4:
T5:
C5:
T6:
C6:
T7:
C7:
T8:
C8:
T9:
C9:
Douglas Bower
thing. And wewere talking about going camping togetler whichjust sounded like a geat
idea- And he seemed to really be enjoying me and I was enjoying him and I was kind of
wondering ge€ when is the honeymoon going to end. But . . . feeling like I was ready to
enjoy it as long as it lasted And then he reported to me that he had ulked to his mom
and dad and they had inquired as to whether he had spent the night at my place or not
and he told them that he had slept on the sofa which indeed he did. But then he was
feelhg like he couldn't do that anymore. And I felt hurt a liftle bit at that. And I'm not
sure . . . I'm not sure, . . . I'm a linle angry, where my anger is directed at. I'm a little
confused . . as to whether it's at his parenls or at him. I think both. Um, probably the
thing that that strikes me the most is thal he would allow his parents to make decisions
for him. I feel like . . . if he genuinely inside feels like its wrong to spend the night, ifhe
feels like he doesn't want to do that because he feels like it's not right, then I can really
accept that. I can acrept and respect it either way, but that doesn't get me angry. It makes
me feel a little disappointed or, you know, "shucks I want you to stay wirh me. I wish
you didn't feel that way." But I feel angrier with him I think because it seems to be tlle
sinration where he doesn't de€p down feel that way. It's more like he feels like he has
to do this for his parents. And I don't know . . . I guess um. . . I was involved in a two
year relationship with a man who couldn't make a commitment to me because he was
Ill3rried to Ns mother. And I'm cautious about getting involved in a situation that's
similar....I se€, there's. . . a difference... if he. . . ifhe really um. . .I think some
people can really feel that they want do something for their parents because their parents
request it and on the other hand, "Gee I got to that because its my parens wishes." See,
I don't operate like that. Not that I haven't in the past. But I don't and . . . I don't know
Tl0: I kinda missed that, you don't op€rate like that . . . you don't do things . . . You don't
like to feel is good to do things you really don't want to do just because they kind of
think you should. Is that . . . .
Cl0: Ah-ha.
Tl1: Ijust kind of. . . .
C11: Um-um.
Tl2: Missed the poinl Yeah, OK.
C12: You know, I guess I fe€l I ne€d to cladfy what I mean. Well, there are things like that
my mom wants me to do like write a thank you lener to somebody if tbey send me
something like a card or a gift or whatever I want to write a thank you letter because I
feel like I want to write a thank you lener. And my relationship with my mom has
improved like. I used to get angry with her "Mom don't tell me to do that. I know to do
that" you know. But now I deal with her a little differently. I say either, you know, "I've
already sent it." But then see it kind of ribs me if I say that to her if I say, "Well, I've
a.lready sent it." "Oh Good, you're such . . .
T13: Ah-ha.
C13: A good girl," or something I feel like, Oh gosh. You know, (shon laugh).
T14: (short laugh).
C 14: That the thing I want to do it because I want to do it not because its the right thing to do
from God Almighty or mother or whomever. And . . . I guess that's that's my experience
with Eddie. I want to feel like he's making this decision because he really feels like . . I
mean I don't really care. I don't want to tell him how to behave. I wanttofeel . -.I want
to love somebody who's making this detision on their own. And t don't feel like he's
doing that and that's making me angry.
T15: Um-um.
Tro nsc ri pt of Th e ra py S e s s i o tl
Cl5: I really, you know, I really feel like de€p down he wants to spend more time with me.
But I could be wrong. Um . . . he shared with me that he doesn't know where our
relationship is going, whether or not we would be able to be married some day. And I
had related to him a little earlier that (inaudible) and he kind of implied that he'd like the
relationship to go in that direction and to just take it like where we're not concemed
about whether or not we have a relationship in the fuhrre, but that we just experience
each other in the now. And that's OK with me as lons as in the now we discuss the future
(laughs).
T16: Um-um.
Cl6: Idon't.. Yeah. And I.. Solthink that's probably my . . . This is an area where I'm not
real sure of myself. Um. I question myself. ls it really OK. . to want to discuss a potential
frrture, you know. I'm not ambivalent on tlat.
Tl7: Ah ha.
Cl7: My experiences with it probably should have taught me by now that often times it doesn't
work out real well to discuss the future. Because I . . . it hasn't been real successful. Um
Tl8: Panicularly in that type ofthing. About that. About future relationships with a man and
woman.
Cl8: Yeah.
Tl9: I think panicularly it it gets sticky here. Something strange happens. I mean,l don't mean
it's not a good thing to do but sometimes guys start to get real nervous when that happens.
(slight laugh) I...
Cl9: Mm-mm.
T20: It happens particularly in those things, yeah . . . .You are probably still going to be
thinking about it anyway, The future, whether you say something about it or not?
C20: Well, you know,like. . . It would be possible to not. Ican see possibly having a different
perspective on relationships. The penpective where you do enjoy them now, and if
something happens more than it will. I tend to think about whether I could or I couldn't
live with this person the rest ofmy life. I tend to think about whether or not - . . you know
. . . um . . . Sometimes I'm unsure. I don't have that many suitors (slight laugh) that there
are that many times anyway. So I don't have much experience to go on. Um . . . My past
relationships are are c harac teri zed by basically two long term relationships, one of which
happened very quickly and the other one I was involved in a relationship thal was on its
way to being a long term relationship when I ended that one to get involved with this
otherman.So...(sigh)....I'mnotsure.tlthinkthadarrivedatthedecisionthatl
was not going to bring up the issue of a long term relationship with him, with Eddie.
And then what happened, we met for a couple of d-cafes (laughs) I think that's going to
be the new American expression. ['ll have a cup ofd-cafe (laughs). When we met for a
cup of coffee, hc told me tlat this conv€rsation witb his mom came up and it set off an
alarm inside of me. And I got anxious and concemed. And he's telling me that he's not
going to be able to spend the night at all. It could have gone in many ways. And I guess
what I'm seeing is that I could have said, "Well OK" and continued to maintain the
relationship as much as possible and nol become concerned . . . I don't know what would
have happened. But that's a thing with me. Before he said that, I felt morecenain even
without speaking.
T2l: Certain? What cenain?
C21: About how he felt about me,
T22: Oh.
C22: And, you know, and and . . . .
T23: OK.
81
L-
82 Douglas Bower
C23: No, it was pretty clear to me that he really enjoyed me.
T24: Yah.
C24: He wanted to spend time with me as much as we both could.
T25: Right
C25: At this point I became uncertain.
T26: Doesn't seem like . . . It's kinda like his feelings for his mother are toward her . . . What
do you think? Or did you begin to feel . . . That's how it stsuck me. That was more this
was more sonrething about her than about ihan about you.
C26: Than about me. Yeah, I understood you. I've wondered about that . . . . Yeah! You know,
probably, yeah, it was morc something about her. And I guess the alarm that it set offin
me was "Uh oh," because my last relationship like I said, this man was married to his
mother and we went out for two years togetber and boiled down to he could not leave
home. And, I just like refused to allow that to happen to me again a.nd um . . and, you
know, this guy . . . Here's a situation where mayb€ its not me. Because the last one wasn't
me. But boy he couldn't leave mom. I mean he couldn't do certain things against mom.
And one ofthe big things between Eddie and I is I'm Catholic and he's not. And despite
the fact that he really admires and likes Catholicism and in some ways thinks that
Catholicism is his religion, I met him at a Catholic club, a Catholic group, despite that
his mom has real reservations about that. And um . . . he feels a strong pull to that and
so I wanbd to clarify how he was feeling about me. I did take it as . . . as it was panly
me. And . . . and se€ this is tlp thing. It's so soon in the relationship that perhaps if we
had gone out for a long time together, you know, he would have felt differently. But see
that's what I'm so afmid I'm allowing to happen, we'll go out for a long time and in fact
he won't want to stay with me - .
T27: He won't . . . because of the mother thing again you mean . . . Yeah.
C27: Yezh. Despite how much in love with me he becomes. And so I just feel the need to
clarify that a lot. I mean John really loves me to death. And I know that, but I, you know,
have pain about that because it doesn't matter how much he loves me. He cannot be with
me. He will not be with me. And ah . . . And so ah, you know, here's a situation where
maybe I'm allowing myself to transfer off this relationship. I don't know. I arn not going
to let this past shit interfere. Because, you know, Eddie is not John. And I'm treating it
similarly. And preventing that from happening, which, you know, I can understand but
...Wellso,..mm-mm,
T28: But I was going to say, if the guy didn't feel he could sleep at your house because his
mothersaidthatlldon'tknowwhat..thatdoessoundsomewhat...ah...alonsthat
lineandI...I...
C28: Mm-mm.
T29: I don't know how common that is among people. But . . .
C29: Yez.h, I guess, you know. I'm not concerned with how comrnon it is or isn't. I'm
conc€rned about how I feel and bow he feels. There's some men . . . I mean I don'tjust
ask men to sleep over. I haven't slept with a man in a long time. We didn't have sex. I
mean in a way, it was fairly ludicrous because (slight laugh), you know, what's the
difference, ifhe comes over and we have, you know, we have sex, versus he comes and
sleeps over and we don't have sex, you know. And so I kind ofthink its a little ludicrous
....Um...Heagrees,buttheothertheotherpartofitis...andl...afterlpursued
it, he said to me that . . . ; one thing said was he didn't want to lie. He didn't know whether
to say this or not, but he guessed he would . . . that he had fantasized us married, you
know. But he also said that from the outset that he didn't think it was going to work. Tbe
way he met me. And, you know, that ofcoune didn't feel r